# Published Research Papers:

# Trading Stocks Based on Financial News Using Attention Mechanism
link: https://www.mdpi.com/2227-7390/10/12/2001 <br>
Sentiment analysis of news headlines is an important factor that investors consider when making investing decisions. We claim that the sentiment analysis of financial news headlines impacts stock market values. Hence financial news headline data are collected along with the stock market investment data for a period of time. Using Valence Aware Dictionary and Sentiment Reasoning (VADER) for sentiment analysis, the correlation between the stock market values and sentiments in news headlines is established. In our experiments, the data on stock market prices are collected from Yahoo Finance and Kaggle. Financial news headlines are collected from the Wall Street Journal, Washington Post, and Business-Standard website. To cope with such a massive volume of data and extract useful information, various embedding methods, such as Bag-of-words (BoW) and Term Frequency-Inverse Document Frequency (TF-IDF), are employed. These are then fed into machine learning models such as Naive Bayes and XGBoost as well as deep learning models such as Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) and Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM). Various natural language processing, and machine and deep learning algorithms are considered in our study to achieve the desired outcomes and to attain superior accuracy than the current state-of-the-art. Our experimental study has shown that CNN (80.86%) and LSTM (84%) are the best performing models in relation to machine learning models, such as Support Vector Machine (SVM) (50.3%), Random Forest (67.93%), and Naive Bayes (59.79%). Moreover, two novel methods, BERT and RoBERTa, were applied with the expectation of better performance than all the other models, and they did exceptionally well by achieving an accuracy of 90% and 88%, respectively.

# Quantum Machine Learning-based Detection of Fake News and Deep Fake Videos 
link: https://cmte.ieee.org/futuredirections/tech-policy-ethics/july-2022/quantum-machine-learning-based-detection-of-fake-news-and-deep-fake-videos/ <br>
With the growth of multimedia technologies and Machine Learning (ML), it is becoming easier for individuals to create fake images/videos. Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) models are mainly used to generate accurate deepfakes, and then the fake content is distributed as news via the World Wide Web. Researchers are rapidly aiming to develop tools to combat the spread of false news, a major global threat. Fake content on major social media sites has had, and can have, real-world ramifications on people’s opinions and actions. This may only be the start of a race to identify solid algorithms that can combat deceitful information. The primary goal of this study is to identify fake news and deepfakes by leveraging quantum machine learning, and then comparing the training time with a traditional neural network model.

# A Comprehensive Review on Summarizing Financial News Using Deep Learning
link: https://arxiv.org/abs/2109.10118v1 <br>
Investors make investment decisions depending on several factors such as fundamental analysis, technical analysis, and quantitative analysis. Another factor on which investors can make investment decisions is through sentiment analysis of news headlines, the sole purpose of this study. Natural Language Processing techniques are typically used to deal with such a large amount of data and get valuable information out of it. NLP algorithms convert raw text into numerical representations that machines can easily understand and interpret. This conversion can be done using various embedding techniques. In this research, embedding techniques used are BoW, TF-IDF, Word2Vec, BERT, GloVe, and FastText, and then fed to deep learning models such as RNN and LSTM. This work aims to evaluate these model's performance to choose the robust model in identifying the significant factors influencing the prediction. During this research, it was expected that Deep Learning would be applied to get the desired results or achieve better accuracy than the state-of-the-art. The models are compared to check their outputs to know which one has performed better.
